dx: Add docs on error handling in Go (#22733)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/background-information/languages/go_errors.md

# Error handling in Go

> We disallow use of error packages (enforced by a lint pass in CI) other than [`github.com/cockroachdb/errors`](https://github.com/cockroachdb/errors) (including the stdlib `errors` package).

Reviewer: Just to clarify that stdlib is disallowed:

```suggestion
We disallow use of error packages — including the stdlib [`errors`](https://golang.org/pkg/errors/) package — (enforced by a lint pass in CI) other than [`github.com/cockroachdb/errors`](https://github.com/cockroachdb/errors).
```

> We also encourage the use of `errors.New` or `errors.Errorf` over the use of `fmt.Errorf`, which also constructs an error type. This is to ensure that each error constructed by Sourcegraph is tagged with a stack depth and allows redaction of content within user-visible strings.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a lint for `fmt.Errorf`?

Author: Is that something golangci-lint can do easily? If so, I think that's a good idea (but would require us to exclude some generated files).

Reviewer 2: Yeah -- check out `forbidigo` on the [config page](https://golangci-lint.run/usage/configuration/)

Reviewer 2: Exclusions can be added to the `exclude-rules` section. There is an example of using that in the config file already

Reviewer: Is this "encourage" or "require"?

Reviewer 2: I don't personally feel strongly. However, if we expect to continue making PRs changing `fmt.Errorf` to `errors.Errorf` to align with the "handbook-encouraged style," it might be best to just require it from the start.

Reviewer: Yeah, that's my feeling too — if this _can_ be a hard rule, we might as well make it one.

Author: Changed language here.

#### Use of `errors.New`

Use this function to create an error value with a static message.

```go
var ErrSomethingWentWrong = errors.New("something went wrong")
```

Idiomatic error messages in Go should start with a lowercase letter and should contain no trailing punctuation.

> Generally, errors of this class should be created as a constant at the highest level possible (e.g., a unexported package constant). Such errors should be exported if direct comparison of error values should be allowed by a user.

Reviewer 3: maybe call out that idiomatically the variable name has the prefix `Err` (while error types idiomatically have the suffix `Error`)

#### Use of `errors.Errorf`

Use this function to create an error value with non-static message.

```go
return errors.Errorf("user %d does not exist", userID)
```

> The formatting directives are the same as `fmt.Sprintf`.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a note about the `%w` formatting directive? Either explaining how to use it, or noting that we should prefer `errors.Wrap`

#### Use of `errors.IsAny`

Use this function to determine if any cause of a given error is equal to at least one target error value.

```go
if err := Some(ctx); err != nil {
	if errors.IsAny(err, context.DeadlineExceeded, context.Canceled) {
		// context error
	} else {
		// another type of error
	}
}
```

As with the `Is` function, the second argument to this function should generally be an error constant.

#### Use of `errors.HasType`

Use this function to determine if a given error has a particular type.

```go
type NotFoundError struct {
	ID string
}

func (e *NotFoundError) Error() string {
	return fmt.Sprintf("Object `%d` not found", e.ID)
}

// Note: We use a pointer here because the receiver of the
// target struct's Error method is a pointer. If the receiver
// was a value type, we'd use a value type here as well.
if errors.HasType(err, &NotFoundError{}) {
	// not found error
} else {
	// another type of error
}
```

This function should be preferred when comparing an error value with an _error struct_ that may tag additional data (e.g., a failed opcode or the identifier of a missing object).

> Note that using the `Is` function here will fail to match any error that does not produce the exact same error text. In the example above, if the struct's state is used in the error output, `Is` will only match error values where the value of the `ID` field is the zero value.

Reviewer 2: > the exact same error text

I'm not sure this is strictly true, and it might be a little misleading about the mechanism of `Is`. Maybe "will fail to match any error that is not strictly equal" or something along that line?

Author: ```suggestion
Note that using the `Is` function here will fail to match any error that does not have equivalent fields. In the example above, `Is` will only match error values where the value of the `ID` field is the zero value.
```

Reviewer 2: LGTM 👍

# Error handling in Go

We disallow use of error packages — including the stdlib [`errors`](https://golang.org/pkg/errors/) package — (enforced by a lint pass in CI) other than [`github.com/cockroachdb/errors`](https://github.com/cockroachdb/errors).

We also require the use of `errors.New` or `errors.Errorf` over the use of `fmt.Errorf`, which also constructs an error type. This is to ensure that each error constructed by Sourcegraph is tagged with a stack depth and allows redaction of content within user-visible strings.

#### Use of `errors.New`

Use this function to create an error value with a static message.

```go
var ErrSomethingWentWrong = errors.New("something went wrong")
```

Idiomatic error messages in Go should start with a lowercase letter and should contain no trailing punctuation.

> Generally, errors of this class should be created as a constant at the highest level possible (e.g., a unexported package constant). Such errors should be exported if direct comparison of error values should be allowed by a user.

Author: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22933

You're right - should be "an unexported". The rule is whenever the next word starts with a vowel _sound_ then you use _an_, otherwise use _a_. For example, it's "an onion" and "a one hundred dollar bill" although both start with the same letter (_one_ starts with a _wuh_ sound though); similarly, "an FBI agent" works because FBI starts with an _eff_ sound.

Idiomatically, error constant _values_ should always have a name of the format `ErrX` (or `errX` if package-private) and types that can be used as `error` should have a name of the format `XError`.

#### Use of `errors.Errorf`

Use this function to create an error value with non-static message.

```go
return errors.Errorf("user %d does not exist", userID)
```

> The formatting directives are the same as `fmt.Sprintf`. The [`'%w` formatting directive](https://blog.golang.org/go1.13-errors#TOC_3.3.) special cases error values. Prefer to use `errors.Wrap` over this directive.

Author: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/22933
